krakendb
========

This is a quickly written utility that generates a binary tree containing a
summation of the nodes below it and a verifier hash, similar to the one
described by gmaxwell (https://iwilcox.me.uk/v/nofrac).

Usage: krakendb <dbname> [key=verifier key] [<position>|<hash>|root|dump|gendata]

When run, if the db file <dbname>.tree does not exist, it will attempt to
use <dbname>.data to generate <dbname>.tree.  For testing purposes, the
gendata option can be used to generate a test <dbname>.data file.

Generation of the tree requires a verifier key, set with the key=verifier-key
option.  The nodes of the tree are hashed using:

Leaf nodes:

hash = SHA256(SHA256(code || ":" || value))

, where code is a random salt code for the account to make brute forcing of
value more difficult and value is the value of the account.  code and value
are known to the account holder but not to anyone else so that thee user can
verify that their node hash is indeed what is claimed.

Interior nodes:

hash = SHA256(SHA256(left.value + right.value) || verifykey || left.hash || right.hash) || verifykey)

The verifykey (set with the key option) is used to make it more difficult to
brute force to determine the left + right values.

After the tree has been generated, the key option is no longer necessary and
options to dump the entire tree, query for the root node, or query for all
the nodes between the leaf node and the root node are available.  Note that
when querying by leaf node hash value, the hashes are not guaranteed to be
unique and only the first entry is returned.


Although what gmaxwell describes works, it will only work if the tree was
generated honestly, as there is no practical way of verifying that it was
correctly generated since a key part of proving that the nodes are correctly
hashed (the value of each node) is not provided.  Combined with the fact
that the entire tree isn't public and a lot of samples from different
accounts are required to find adjacent nodes in which one can attempt to
brute force the values with in order to verify that a single node was not
using faulty math.  Even if all the nodes were hashed correctly, it'd be
difficult to determine if there were leaf nodes with negative values in
them to suppress the final tally at the root.

In order to protect privacy (both the business and its users), a third party
is necessary to ensure that the tree is correctly being generated with the
proper math at every node, and that there aren't any negative values at the
leaf nodes designed to deflate the value of the root.  Note that there may
sometimes be negative values for some accounts for various reasons, but
there should not be a lot of negative amounts and any that have a large
negative amount require further investigation as to the reason for it.
